Okay, let's talk about bindings.
So as we've seen, it is a general rule and
spelt data kind of flows from
the top down into your components.
So a parent component can set
props on a child component and
a component can set attributes on
an element but not the other way around.
Sometimes it's useful to break that rule,
so take this input element.
Now, we could use an event handler here.
We could add on input equals blah,
then we would have an event handler and
then we would set the name
from the value of the input,
it gets very boilerplate-y very quickly.
We can get rid of all of that and
just bind the value to the name.
All right, so
now when I change the text in here.
It's gonna keep the value of the input and
the value of that variable in sync.
And we can do this with all different
kinds of inputs, that was a text input,
which is the default type but you can
use it with numeric inputs as well.
And because Svelte understands
the input is numeric,
it will turn the string value
that you get from the DOM,
because of course, into a number
that you can actually work with.
So in here, in our app.svelte,
right now there's no binding, so
these aren't doing anything
when we edit them.
We'll turn all of these values into
bindings by just selecting them all.
Select one, command-D,
command-D, command-D and
then stick a bind in front, right,
and now they are all linked.
So I can change that value, and
not only is the other input updating,
but the paragraph below,
the labels is also updating.
And you can think about how much work and
faffing around you have had to do,
if you're using event handlers
instead of bindings to achieve that.
We can use it with check box inputs too.
This time, instead of binding
to the value of the check box,
we're gonna bind to the checked property,
because that's what the DOM gives us.
So inside here, that checked attribute,
we're gonna bind it.
And now,
we can interact with the application.
We're binding the yes value to
the check state of the input,
and when yes is true, we show this
markup instead of this markup.
And it's not just input elements,
we can also use this with select elements.
Here we've got an array of
questions that are going
inside this select element here and
we have a selected value
which is currently undefined.
And then further down, we have an input
which is binding the value to the,
sorry, binding the answer to each of
those questions to our answer variable.
And once the answer has been populated,
we're allowed to submit the form
So again, we take the value attribute
on the Select, just like with an input,
and we put bind in front of it And
it's now bound the currently
selected option to
the question which we can
see at the bottom here.
Where it says selected question
one that corresponds to this
piece of markup down here.
So the selected value is now getting
populated whenever we interact with that
select element.
Okay.
We can also bind multiple
inputs using the same value.
So common thing that you'll have when
you're dealing with forms is that
you will have multiple radio or checkbox
inputs that relate to the same value.
And for these we can use something
called a group binding along with
the value attribute to keep them all in
sync with the state inside your component.
So radio inputs you'll recall,
they are the circular ones that
are all mutually exclusive
if they have the same name,
checkbox inputs form an array of values
because they are not mutually exclusive.
So let's take the radio inputs first,
these are the radio inputs.
When you're ordering ice cream from ice
cream app you can choose one scoop or
two scoop or three scoops but
you cannot choose both one scoop and
two scoops that wouldn't make any sense.
So that's a radio input which has a name.
I'm keeping them mutually exclusive and
we'll add bind group equals scoops.
And now, when we interact with that,
we are updating the value of the scoops
variable inside our component.
But before we can order our ice cream,
we need to pick some flavors, as well.
So down where the checkbox input is,
we're gonna use another binding
And this time the value that we're binding
to is an array because we can select
multiple flavors, that's why we're using a
checkbox input rather than a radio input.
So if I want one scoop of cookies and
cream,
it will show my order at the bottom.
If I try and
order more flavors than scoops,
then we've got an F block which is
gonna tell us that's not possible.
And again, bindings make this really easy,
if you were using the event handlers for
this then you would have to express all
that logic in a more complex fashion.
We can use checkbox inputs if you
wanna select multiple values, but
another option that we have is a select
element with the multiple attribute.
So back down, down here where
we have our checkbox inputs,
we can use a select element instead.
Okay, so
we're gonna replace this array of check
box inputs with a single select element.
I'm gonna put it outside the each.
And we're gonna, again,
bind its value to the flavors array.
Close the select element after the each,
and then inside here,
we're just gonna have an option.
The name of it is flavor,
so we need to call it that.
When you see the effects of
this piece of markup down here.
We can select multiple things by pressing
the command key and selecting them or
I think if you press the Shift key
you can select a whole bunch at once.
And we don't need to declare the value on
the option because it's just a string.
So in the case where
the value is just a string,
it will take the value
from inside the option.
We can also use bindings
with text area elements.
A text area is just kinda
like a big chunky text input.
So as with a regular text input,
we're gonna
replace this value with bind:value= Value.
And now when I change some text
inside the input text area.
It's gonna reflect that in the value
variable, which is then getting
turned into markdown using this mark
library from NPM and the HTML tag.
Again, you don't use this with
untrusted input, but if it's within
the user's own browser and we're using
their data, then it's totally fine.
We have a shorthand property here because
we're doing bind column value equals
value, and
we're repeating the value there.
We're gonna just get rid of that last
part and, it will continue to work.